#_The DH Awards_: An Evaluation: 

###By Essam Farah

##Introduction: 
The Digital Humanities Awards, shortened to _DH Awards_, are yearly honors given to digital humanities projects by a website of the same name. Since 2012, this organization has bestowed respects on a broad variety of projects from all around the world. Some projects are fun, some are educational, and some attempt to tackle and address big picture issues. Awards are given on an annual basis for the previous year. As of writing, the 2016 awards are still in review. Whilst the site is a great resource and has its strengths, for an organization that evaluates digital platforms, their host website is in a surprising amount of disorganization, with a myriad of glaring weaknesses. 


##**Strengths**: Information: 
The site may have its weaknesses, but it is far from being a failure. Even disregarding the awards themselves, the website provides ample information on the organization itself and the process of bestowing its prizes. The very first thing visitors to the site are confronted with is a short, concise, and clear explanation of what the awards are and are not, as well as a brief explanation of the group’s criteria for evaluating nominations. 
This front page is also very clear and accessible. There are no distracting images or text, and visitors do not need to go hunting for information. The top bar has links to all of the DH Award years, which drop down to provide more links, as well as links to their twitter and contact information. Furthermore, their **FAQ** sections are both easy to understand, and comprehensively cover nearly all aspects of the _DH Awards_ and their processes. The slide-down bars also work quite well. Many websites that use a similar interface end up experiencing lag, being clunky, and an overall pain to use, however the ones of the _DH Awards_ website are smooth and easy to use.  
To add to this easily accessible information, each year also includes links to a variety of other information, even for years past. Categories, nominations, voting, statistics, feedback, and the committees working for the organization that year are all present.  Because this website is not a digital humanities project itself, some evaluations, like the building processes and documentation, cannot be present. Nevertheless, the _DH Awards_ provides ample information about how projects are selected and awarded. 


 ##**Weaknesses**: Information and Presentation: 
The information provided by the _DH Awards_ organization may be quite substantive, but their presentation is sorely lacking. The **FAQ** sections, while very informative, are the exact same for each year, and are posted again each year. This is repetitive, unnecessary and confusing. If there is crucial information specifically for that year, it can be easily included in another section. A better alternative would be to have one unified **FAQ** at the top bar for ease of access and to provide concise information. To make matters worse, all the links provided in the slide-down menus differ in order from year to year, even though they contain the same information. For example, in 2014 the “results” section is located at the second from the bottom, whilst in 2012, the same section is located at the top. It is understandable that their aims and stylistic desires would change and thus so would the order. Yet, they could have and should have changed the order for all the sections in order to accommodate those changes. 
The _DH Awards_ does provide a wealth of information, but sometimes extra clarification is required, hence the contact section. Unfortunately, the **contact** link the _DH Awards_ uses barely functions at all. Clicking the link attempts to open an external application. For some computers, it was an email application, which works well enough. For me, it simply opened a Google Chrome window, which accomplishes nothing. Thus, it shows that the contact link will only work on some devices, which makes it largely ineffective. Even if it opened up the email perfectly each time, which might not be the desired result, and would simply frustrate users. Because of this, throughout this evaluation, I have yet to obtain any way to contact the organization, which could prove very problematic for those directly involved with sites being featured, as well as the ordinary user. 
One last minor caveat is their lists of the _DH Awards_ nomination committee members for each year. The lists are easily readable and accessible. However, they only provide the members’ names and positions. Whilst this clearly shows their authority and 
##**Strengths**: Awards: 
Although the _DH Awards_ has plenty of background information, the main attraction are the awards and websites themselves. Here, the organization excels. The result pages clearly displays the category for the award, links to the winner’s website, followed by several of the runner-ups. This format is easily readable, and provides users plenty of submissions to explore, while still clearly maintaining clarity. 


 ##Conclusions: 
Overall, the _DH Awards_ is a solid website that is mostly accessible and readable. In most cases, ample information is both easily readable and thorough, for both the average user and those looking more in-depth into digital humanities. Unfortunately, the site does have several glaring errors, mainly to do with organization, but manages to function well nevertheless. 


